# VRP_optimisation
Determining the optimal solution for a Travelling Salesman Problem (TSP) using Heuristic and Meta-Heuristic algorithms.

In the classical vehicle routing problem (VRP) the goal is to find optimal routes for vehicles leaving from a depot to serve a specified number of customers. Each customer must be visited once and only once, by exactly one vehicle. Each vehicle must leave from the depot and return there after serving all customers on its route. The objective of this type of problem is are to either minimise the number of vehicles and/or the fuel cost.
This report focuses on finding the optimal sequence of j trips of n items, that must be delivered to several destinations.
For confidentiality purposes, our client X is represented by “Santa” on GitHub script and their vehicles; which is the focus of this problem, by “reindeers”. Our goal was to deliver all the items produced, while attempting to minimise the vehicles’ cost. To achieve this, we implement two different Stochastic Local Search (SLS) algorithms; Random Search and Simulate Annealing (SA). 

The dataset file consists of a total 100,000 items and 100,000 destinations worldwide, with the longitude and latitude of the various destinations. Vehicles have to return to the depot after every trip. The overall goal is to minimise the weighted distance.

The steps: • Began by understanding the problem, which is an optimisation solution. • Creating and utilising the objective function •Two SLS algorithms were deployed, random search, and simulated annealing • After running both of these approaches and the corresponding results, we can then implement 2 conditions which consist of neighbourhood move 3 and neighbourhood move 6 with simulated annealing. • Then adding the temperature decay, which is changing the alpha to {0.98, 0.95, 0.90, 0.8,0.5} • Times and seeing the response. • We did this by using the universe data set which we were given, with the variables, longitude, latitude and the WRW • We ran this with 3 different sample sizes 10,100,1000. • From this data we created a random sample by setting a random sample seed, because we distributed the data between • Observed the data behaviour for each algorithm and analysed the results and findings through graphs, such as scatter plots and box plots. • We will see how the results work and see how each step creates a different solution.
